> WHAT IS SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION? 
Before we can get into the nitty gritty of what systems administration is, we need to talk about what these systems are. Organizations don't just run on their own, employees need computers along with access to the Internet to reach out to clients. The organization websites needs to be up and running. Firewall have to be shared back and forth and so much more. All of these requirements make up the IT infrastructure of an organization. IT infrastructure encompasses the software, the hardware, network, and services required for an organization to operate in an enterprise IT environment. Without an IT infrastructure, employees wouldn't be able to do their jobs and the whole company will crumble before it even get started. So organizations employ the help of someone like a systems administrator to manage the company's IT infrastructure. System administrators or as we like to call them sysadmins, are the unsung heroes in organization. They work in the background to make sure a company's IT infrastructure is always working, constantly fighting to prevent IT disasters from happening. Notice all of the really hard work that sysadmins put in. So show a little appreciation for your sysadmin by celebrating System Administrator Appreciation Day worldwide. Yes that's a real thing. In all seriousness, sysadmins have a lot of different responsibilities. Any company that has an IT presence needs a sysadmin or someone who handles those responsibilities. The role of a sysadmin can vary depending on the size of an organization. As an organization gets bigger, you need teams of sysadmins. Their responsibilities may be separated out into different roles with job titles like network administrators and database administrators. Companies like Facebook and Apple, don't have a single person running the IT show. But in smaller companies, it's usually a single person who manages the entire company's IT infrastructure. In this course, we'll focus on how just one person you, can single handedly manage an IT infrastructure. You learn the skills you need to manage an organization of less than 100 people as a sole IT person. As you start to scale up to large organizations, you also need to level up your knowledge of systems administration. You need to pick up skills that allow you to automate workflows and manage configurations or computer settings automatically. Right now, let's focus on systems administration in a small organization. In the next couple of lessons, we're going to talk in detail about the responsibilities of sysadmin and how that relates to the role of IT support specialist who handle system administration.

> SERVER REVISITED 
Basically, a sysadmin is responsible for their company's I.T. services. Employees need these I.T. services so that they can be productive. This includes things like email, file storage, running a website and more. The services have to be stored somewhere, they don't just appear out of nowhere. Any thoughts on where they're stored? If you answered servers, you're correct. We talked about servers in an earlier course and you've learned that the term servers can have multiple meanings. In one course we discussed how servers have web content that they serve to other computers. In another course, we talked about how servers can be software that perform a certain function. In this video, we're going to talk about servers more in-depth because, in many cases sysadmins are responsible for maintaining all of the company's servers. If you're working as an I.T. support specialist and have systems administration responsibilities, these tasks could be something you'll perform. A server is essentially software or a machine that provides services to other software or machines. For example, a web server stores and serves content to clients through the Internet. You can access the web server through a domain name like google.com. We'll dive deeper into web servers in a later course. Right now, let's run down some other examples of servers. An email server, provides email service to other machines. And an SSH server provides SSH services to other machines and so on and so forth. We call them machines that use the services provided by a server, clients. Clients request the services from a server and in turn, the servers respond with the services. A server can provide services to multiple clients at once and the client can use multiple servers. Any computer can be a server. I can start up a web server on my own home computer that would be able to serve my own personal website on the internet for me. But, I don't really want to do that because I have to leave my computer on all the time in order for my website to be available all the time. Industry Standard Servers are typically running 24 seven and they don't run dinky little hardware like my home laptop. They run on a really powerful and reliable hardware. Server hardware can come in lots of different forms. They can be towers that sit upright, they look very similar to the desktops we've seen. Those towers can be put in a closet or can sit on the table if you want them to. But, what if you needed to have 10 servers? The towers would start taking up way too much space. Instead, you can use rack servers which lay flat and are usually mounted in a 90 inch wide server rack. If you needed even more space, you could use blade servers that are even slimmer than racks. There are other types of form factors for servers but these are the most common ones. You can also customize the hardware on your servers depending on the services. For example, on a file server you'll want more storage resources so that you can store more files. What about connecting to our servers? Working in a small IT organization, you could potentially deal with a handful of servers. You don't want to have a monitor, keyboard and a mouse for each of these servers, do you? Fortunately, you don't have to thanks to something we learned in an earlier course. We can remotely connect to them with something like SSH. Even so, you should always have a monitor keyboard on hand. Sometimes when you're working your network might be having issues and SSH won't be an option. A common industry practice is to use something known as a KVM Switch. KVM stands for keyboard, video and mouse. A KVM Switch looks like a hub that you can connect multiple computers to and control them using one keyboard, mouse and monitor. You can read more about using KVMs in the next supplemental reading. Now though we've got a better understanding of servers and what they do, you can go out and start buying server hardware and setting up services for your organization. Or maybe not. You don't actually have to buy your own server hardware or even maintain your own services. In the next video, were going to learn about a wave of computing that started to overtake the IT world, cloud computing. See you there.

> THE CLOUD 
Oh, the Cloud, the magical wonderful Cloud that you hear about in the news that moves data across the white fluffy windows in the sky. The magical Cloud dispersed bits of data across the world in itty bitty raindrops, right? No, that's not how the Cloud works at all, but you'd be surprised how many people believed that. There's no doubt you've heard the term Cloud in the news or from other people. Your photos are stored in the Cloud, your email is stored in the Cloud. Cloud computing is the concept that you can access your data, use applications, store files, et cetera, from anywhere in the world as long as you have an internet connection. But the Cloud isn't a magical thing. It's just a network of servers that store and process our data. You might have heard the word data center before. A data center is a facility that stores hundreds, if not thousands of servers. Companies with large amounts of data have to keep their information stored in places like data centers. Large companies like Google and Facebook usually own their own data centers because they have billions of users that need access to their data at all times. Smaller companies could do this, but usually rent out part of a data center for their needs. When you use the Cloud service, this data is typically stored in the data center or multiple data centers, anywhere that's large enough to hold the information of millions, maybe even billions of users. It's easy to see why the Cloud has become a popular way of computing in the last few years. Now instead of holding onto terabytes of storage space on your laptop, you can upload that data to a file storage service like Dropbox, which stores that data in a managed location like a data center. The same goes for your organization. Instead of managing your own servers, you can use internet services that handle everything for you including security updates, server hardware, routine software updates, and more. But with each of these options come a few drawbacks. The first is cost. When you buy a server, you pay upfront for the hardware. That way, you can set up your services like a file storage at potentially very little cost because you're the one managing it. When you use Internet services like Dropbox, that offer file storage online, the starting cost may be smaller. But in the long term, costs could add up since you're paying a fixed amount every month. When comparing the cost of services, always keep in mind what a subscription could cost you for every user in your organization. Weigh that against maintaining your own hardware in the long term and then make a decision that works best for your organization. The second drawback is dependency. Your data is beholden to these platforms. If there's an issue with the service, someone other than you is responsible for getting it up and running again. That could cost your company precious loss of productivity and data. No matter what method you choose, remember that you're still responsible for the problems that arise when there's an issue. If Dropbox is having an issue with your important user data, it's still your problem and you have to get it working again no matter what. To prevent a situation like that from popping up, you might consider backing up some critical data in the Cloud and on a physical disk. That way, if one system goes down, you have another way to solve the problem. Whether you choose to maintain physical service or use Cloud services, these are the type of things you need to think about when providing services to your company. In the next couple of lessons, we're going to talk about some of the other responsibilities of the system admin. We'll give you a high level overview of these, then dive even deeper later in this course.

