> ORGANIZATIONAL POLICIES 
In a small company, it's usually a sys admin's responsibility to decide what computer policies to use. In larger companies with hundreds of employees or more, this responsibility usually falls under the chief security officer. But in smaller businesses or shops, as the IT lingo goes, the sys admin has to think carefully about computer security and whether or not to allow access to certain users. There are few common policy questions that come up in most IT settings that you should know. Should users be allowed to install software? Probably not. You could run the risk of having a user or accidentally install malicious software, which we'll learn about in the upcoming course in security. Should users have complex passwords with certain requirements? It's definitely a good rule of thumb to create a complex password that has symbols, random numbers, and letters. A good guideline for a password blend is to make sure it has a minimum of 8 characters, that make it more difficult for someone to crack. Should you be able to view non-work related websites like Facebook? That's a personal call. Some organisations prefer that their employees only use their work computer and network strictly for business, but many allow other uses, so their employee can promote their business or goods on social media platforms, stay up to date on current events, and so on. It will definitely be a policy that you and your organization's leaders can work out together. If you hand out a company phone to an employee, should you set a device password? Absolutely. People lose their mobile devices all the time. If a device is lost or stolen, it should be password protected, at the very least, so that someone else can't easily view company emails. We'll dive way deeper into the broader impact and implications of security and organizational policies in the security course that's last up in this program. These are just a few of the policy questions that can come up. Whenever policies are decided upon, have to be documented somewhere. As you know from a lesson in documentation in the first course, it's supercritical to maintain good documentation. If you're managing systems, you'll be responsible for documenting your company's policies, routine procedures, and more. You can store this documentation on internal wiki site, file server, software, wherever. The takeaway here is that having documentation of policies already available to your employees will help them learn and maintain those policies.

> IT INFRASTRUCTURE SERVICES 
We've talked a little bit about the services that are potentially used in an organization like file storage, email, web content, et cetera. But there are many other infrastructure services that you need to be aware of.
Play video starting at ::23 and follow transcript0:23
As an IT support specialist doing system administration, you'd be responsible for the IT infrastructure services in your organization. Spoiler alert, there are a lot of them ahead. As always, make sure to rewatch any lessons if you need some more time for the material to sink in.
Play video starting at ::40 and follow transcript0:40
Rome wasn't built in a day, you know, and neither are IT support specialists. So, how about getting network access? That's a service that needs to be managed. What about secure connection to websites and other computers? You guessed it, that's also a service that has to be managed. And managing services doesn't just mean setting them up. They have to be updated routinely, patched for security holes, and compatible with the computer within your organization.
Play video starting at :1:7 and follow transcript1:07
Later in this course, we'll dive deeper into the essential infrastructure services that you might see in an IT support specialist role.

> USER AND HARDWARE PROVISIONING 
In other responsibilities sys admins have is managing users and hardware. sys admins have to be able to create new users and give them access to their company's resources. On the flipside of that, they also have to remove users from an IT infrastructure if users leave the company. It's not just user accounts they have to worry about, sys admins are also responsible for user machines. They have to make sure a user is able to log in and that the computer has the necessary software that a user needs to be productive. Sys admins also have to ensure that the hardware they are provisioning or setting up for users is standardized in some way. We talked in an earlier course about imaging a machine with the same image. This practice is industry standard with dealing with multiple user environments. Not only do sys admins have to standardize settings on a machine, they have to figure out the hardware lifecycle of a machine. They often think of the hardware lifecycle of a machine in the literal way. When was it built? When was it first used? Did the organization buy it brand new or was it used? Who maintained it before? How many users have used it in the current organization? What happens to this machine if someone needs a new one? These are all good questions to ask when thinking about an organization's technology. sys admins don't want to keep a ten year old computer in their organization. Or maybe they do. Even that's something they might have to make a decision on. There are four main stages of the hardware lifecycle. Procurement. This is the stage where hardware is purchased or re-used for any employee. Deployment. This is where hardware is set up so that the employee can do their job. Maintenance. This is the stage where software is updated and hardware issues are fixed if and when they occur. Retirement. In this final stage, hardware becomes unusable or no longer needed and it needs to be properly removed from the fleet. In a small position, a typical hardware lifecycle might go something like this. First, a new employee is hired by the company, human resources tells you to provision a computer for them and set up their user account. Next, you allocate a computer you have from your inventory or you order a new one if you need it. When you allocate hardware you may need to tag the machine with a sticker so they can keep track of which inventory belongs to the organization. Next, you image the computer with the base image for further using a streamlined method that we discussed in our last course, operating systems and you. Next, you name the computer with a standardised host name. This helps with managing machines. More on that when we talk about directory services later. In regards to the name itself, we talked about using a format such as username-location, but other host name starters can be used. Check out the supplemental reading to find out more. After that, you install software the user needs on their machine. Then the new employee starts and you streamline the setup process for them by providing instructions on how to log into their new machine, get email etc. Eventually, if a computer sees a hardware issue, a failure, you look into it and think through the next steps. If it's getting too old, you'll have to figure out where to recycle it and where to get new hardware. Finally, if a user leaves the company you'll also have to remove their access from IT resources and wipe the machine so that you can eventually re-allocate it to someone else. Imaging. Installing software and configuring settings on a new computer can get a little time consuming. In a small company you don't do it often enough where it makes much of a difference, but in a larger company a time consuming process just won't cut it. You'll have to learn automated ways to provision new machines so that you only spend minutes on this and not hours.

> ROUNTINE MAINTENANCE 
When you manage machines for a company, you don't just set it and forget it, you have to constantly provide updates and maintenance so that they run the latest secure software. When you have to do this for a fleet of machines, you don't want to immediately install updates as soon as they come in. That would be way too time-consuming. Instead, to effectively update and manage hardware, you do something called batch update. This means that once every month or so, you update all your servers with the latest security patches. You have to find time to take their services offline, perform the update, and verify that the new update works with the service. You also don't have to perform an update every single time a new software becomes available. But, it's common practice to do batch updates for security updates and very critical system updates. And the security costs, we dive deeper into security practices, but a good guideline is to keep your system secure by installing the latest security patches routinely. Staying on top of your security is always a good idea.

> VENDORS 
Not only do sys admins in a small company work with using computers, they also have to deal with printers and phones, too. Whether your employees have cellphones or desk phones, their phone lines have to be set up. Printers are still used in companies, which means they have to be set up so employees can use them. Sys admins might be responsible for making sure printers are working or if renting a commercial printer, they have to make sure that someone can be on site to fix it. What if a company's fax machine isn't working? If you don't know what a fax machine is, that's not totally surprising. They've been slowly dying since the invention of email. Fax machines are still alive and kicking at companies, and they're a big pain to deal with. Sys admins could be responsible for those, too. Video-audio conferencing machines, yep, they probably need to handle those, too. In an enterprise setting, sys admins have to procure this hardware one way or another. Working with vendors or other businesses to buy hardware is a common practice.
Play video starting at :1:8 and follow transcript1:08
Setting up businesses accounts with vendors like Hewlett Packard, Dell, Apple, etc., is usually beneficial since these companies can offer discounts to businesses. These are things that sys admins have to think about. It's typically not scalable just to go out and purchase devices on Amazon. Although if that's what's decided, they could do that too. Sys admins must be sure to weigh their option before purchasing anything. They need to think about hardware supply. So if a certain laptop model isn't used anymore, they need to think of a suitable backup that works with their organization. Price is also something to keep in mind. They'll probably need formal approval from their manager or another leader to establish this relationship with a vendor. It's not just technical implementations of hardware that sys admins have to consider. It's so many things.

> TROUBLESHOOTING AND MANAGING ISSUES 
We talked about troubleshooting alert. In an earlier course, but it's worth mentioning again, when you're managing an entire IT infrastructure, you'll constantly have to troubleshoot problems and find solutions for your IT needs. This will probably take up most of your time as an IT support specialist. This could involve a single client machine from an employee or server or service that isn't behaving normally. Some folks, who start their careers in IT support deepen their knowledge to become system administrators. They go from working on one machine to multiple machines. For me, I made the leap during my internship as an IT support specialist in college at a semiconductor lab. The lab ended up closing and they needed help deprecating the environment. So, what started as an IT help desk support quickly transition to assist admin role. That opportunity was my golden ticket to dowland to Active Directory, Sub netting and decision making which is a core part of this job. Sys admins also have to troubleshoot and prioritize issues at a larger scale. If a server that sys admin manage stop providing services to a thousand users and one person had an issue about the printer, which do you think would have to be worked on first. Whatever the scenario, there are two skills that are critical to arriving at a good solution for your users. We already covered them in an earlier course. Do you know what they are? The first is troubleshooting, asking questions, isolating the problem, following the cookie crumbs, and reading logs are the best ways to figure out the issue. You might have to read logs from multiple machines or even the entire network. We talked about centralized logging a little bit in the last course on operating systems and you becoming a power user. If you need a refresher to how centralized logging works, check out the supplemental reading. Anyway, the second super important skill that we covered is customer service; showing empathy, using the right tone of voice and dealing well with difficult situations. These skills are essential to all IT roles. In some companies, sysadmins have to be available around the clock. If a server or network goes down in the middle of the night, someone has to be available to get it working again. Don't worry, a sysadmin doesn't have to be awake and available 24/7. They can monitor their service and have it alert them in case of a problem. So how do you keep track of your troubleshooting? A common industry standard is to use some sort of ticketing or bug system. This is where users can request help on an issue and then you can track your troubleshooting work, through the ticketing system. This helps you organize and prioritize issues and document troubleshooting steps. Throughout this course, we'll introduce types of services that a sysadmin needs to maintain and what responsibilities they have in an organization. We'll also share some best practices for troubleshooting when it comes to systems administration. When you work as an IT support specialist, systems administration can become part of your job. So it helps to think about all aspects of managing an IT infrastructure in an organization. The more prepared you are the better.

> IN CASE OF FIRE, BREAK GLASS!! 
Let's take a bit of a dark turn and talk about disasters. Like it or not, something at some point will stop working, no matter how much planning you do. This happens in both small and large companies. It's an equal opportunity problem. You can't account for everything, but you can be prepared to recover from it. How? It's super important to make sure that your company's data is routinely backed up somewhere. Preferably, far away from it's current location. What if a tornado struck your building? And your backups got swept away with it? You wouldn't have a building to work in, let alone, be able to recover your data, and get people up and running again. Later in this course, we'll talk more about what methods you can use to backup your organization's data, and to recover from a disaster. We'll try to keep things a little lighter in the meantime. So far, you've learned a lot about the roles and responsibilities of a sys admin. Some of it may seem like a lot of work. Some might even seem scary. Being responsible for keeping data available isn't easy. But it's a rewarding role in IT, and you're already building your SA or sys admin's skill set by learning the fundamentals of IT support. Next up, we've got a quiz for you.

