> CPU
If someone asked you, calculate the square root of 5,439,493, would you do the math by hand? Unless you really love tedious Math problems, you'd probably use a calculator. What about binary? Well, you probably wouldn't calculate binary by hand either. There's actually a very powerful calculator right inside of your computer that processes binary for us. We've already discussed this calculator in detail. Do you know what it is? It's our CPU, the brain of our computer. In this video, we'll cover the more practical aspects of the CPU. Remember that translation book that I talked about in an earlier lesson? The CPU uses this to translate and perform functions on our data. This transition book is called an instruction set, which is literally just a list of instructions that our CPU is able to run. Functions like adding, subtracting, copying data are all instructions that our CPU can carry out. Every single program on your computer, while extremely complex, is broken down into very small and simple instructions found in our instruction set. Instruction sets are hard-coded into our CPU. So different CPU manufacturers may use different instructions sets. But they generally perform the same functions. It's like how car manufacturers build their engines differently but they all get the same job done. You probably work with computer hardware as an I.T. support specialist, replacing failed hard disks, upgrading RAM modules, and installing video cards. So you need to be aware of what's out there. You've probably heard of a few popular CPU manufacturers or chipsets like Intel, AMD and Qualcomm. These CPU manufacturers use different part names to differentiate their processors. Like Intel Core i7, AMD Athlon, Snapdragon 810, Apple A8, and more. Now, when you hear these terms, you'll know what they mean. Each of these CPU manufacturers have their strengths and weaknesses. If you're interested in learning more about why some CPUs are more popular than others, you can check out the next supplemental reading. When you select your CPU, you need to make sure it's compatible with your motherboard. The circuit board that connects all your components together. Heads up. You can't just buy a bunch of parts and expect them to work together. There are different ways CPUs fit on motherboards using different sockets. Your CPU might have lots of tiny pins that either stick out or have contact points that look like dots. Depending on your motherboard, you need to make sure these CPUs fit correctly in the socket. There are currently two major types of CPU sockets, Land Grid Array also known as LGA, and Pin Grid Array, also known as PGA. In an LGA socket, like this one, there are pins that stick out of the motherboard. The socket size may vary. So always make sure you CPU and socket are compatible before hand. When you purchase the CPU or motherboard, they will tell you right on the box what type of socket it has. Make sure your CPU and motherboard socket also both match. If it's not listed on the box, you can go to the manufacturer's website where it usually list what types of CPUs are compatible with the motherboard. The other type of socket is the PGA socket, where the pins are located on the processor itself. When we install our CPU, we need to do a few things to it to keep it cool. Since it does a lot of work, it's prone to overheating. We have to make sure to include a heat sink, too, which takes the heat from our CPU and dissipates it through a fan or another medium. There's one last thing I want to call out about CPUs. If you purchase a CPU, you'll see that it has either a 32 bit or 64 bit architecture. What does that mean? Well, we know we can't process 8 bits in binary. Now, imagine how we can process with 32 or even 64 bits. CPUs that have 32 bit or 64 bit architecture are just specifying how much data it can efficiently handle. You can read more about the differences between 32 bit and 64 bit architecture in the next reading. For now, the main takeaway is that the CPU is one of the most important parts of a computer. So we have to make sure it's compatible with all other components and can perform well for our computing needs.

> RAM
Let's talk about RAM, our computers' short term memory. We use RAM to store data that we want to access quickly. This data changes all the time so it isn't permanent. Almost all RAM is volatile, which means that once we power off our machines, the data stored in RAM is cleared. Remember that our computer is comprised of programs. To run a program, we need to make a copy of it in RAM so our CPU can process it. When you see a new phone or laptop that's says it has 16 gigs of RAM, that means it can run up to 16 gigs of programs, meaning you can run lots of programs at the same time. When you type in a document, you're using RAM. If you've ever had the misfortune of working on an important presentation of paper and losing power, you know the feeling you get when all of the work you've done is lost. It's a total bummer. This happens to anything with RAM, even video games. Have you ever gone on a long campaign without saving, then right as you get to a safe point, the power goes off on the console and all the progress you've made is lost forever? It's not fun at all. You spend the next hour or so deciding whether or not just to rage quit the game completely and start all over from scratch. Not that this happened to me or anything, that was just a friend. Anyway, all of this happens because RAM clears it's data. There are lots of types of RAM. And the one is commonly found in computers, is DRAM or dynamic random access memory. Where a one or zero is sent to DRAM, it source each bit in a microscopic capacitor. This is either the charge or discharge represented by one or zero. These semiconductors are put into chips that are on the RAM and store our data. There are also different types of memory states that DRAM chips can be put on. The more modern DIMM sticks, which usually stands for Dual Inline Memory Module, have different sizes of pins on them. I should call out, we don't really buy RAM based on the number of DRAM chips they have. They are labeled by the capacity of RAM on a stake, like an 8 gig stick of RAM. After DRAM was created, RAM manufacturers build something called SDRAM which stands for Synchronous DRAM. This type of RAM is synchronized to our systems' clock speed allowing quicker processing of data. In today's system, we use another type of RAM, called double data rate SDRAM, or DDR SDRAM for short. Most people refer to this RAM as DDR, even shorter. There were lots of iterations of DDR, from DDR1, DDR2, DDR3 and now, DDR4. DDR is faster, takes up less power, and has a larger capacity than earlier SDRAM versions. The latest version, DDR4, is the fastest type of short term memory currently available for your computer. And faster RAM means that programs can be run faster and that more programs can run at the same time. Keep in mind that any RAM sticks you use need a compatible motherboard with a different number of pins aligned with the motherboard RAM slots. Just like with the CPU, make sure that your motherboard is compatible with any RAM sticks that you buy. Up next, we'll take a deep dive into motherboards.

> MOTHERBOARDS
The motherboard, the foundation that holds our computer together. It lets us expand our computer's functionality by adding expansion cards around its power from the power supply and it allows the different parts of the computer to communicate with each other. In short, it's a total boss. Every motherboard has a few key characteristics. First is the chipset, which decides how components talk to each other on our machine. The chipset on motherboards is made up of two chips. One is called the Northbridge that interconnects stuff like RAM and video cards. The other chip is the Southbridge which maintains our IO or input/output controllers, like hard drives and USB devices that input and output data. In some modern CPUs, the Northbridge has been directly integrated into the CPU so there isn't a separate Northbridge chipset. A chipset is a key component of our motherboard that allows us to manage data between our CPU, RAM, and peripherals. Peripherals are the external devices we connect to our computer like: a mouse, keyboard, and a monitor. You'll learn more about peripherals in an upcoming lesson. In addition to the chipsets, motherboards have another key characteristic which allows the use of expansion slots. Expansion slots also give us the ability to increase the functionality of our computer. If you want to upgrade your graphics card, you could purchase one and just install it on your motherboard through the expansion slot. The standard for an expansion slot today is the PCI Express or Peripheral Component Interconnect Express. A PCIe bus looks like a slot on the motherboard and a PCIe base expansion card looks like a smaller circuit board. The last component of motherboards that we'll discuss is form factor. There are different size of motherboards that are available today. These sizes of form factors determine the amount of stuff we can put in it and the amount of space we'll have. The most common form factor for motherboards is ATX which stands for Advanced Technology eXtended. ATX actually comes in different sizes too. In desktops, you'll commonly see full sized ATX's. If you don't want to use an ATX form factor, you could use an ITX or Information Technology eXtended form factor. These are much smaller than ATX boards. For example, the Intel NUC uses a variation of the ITX board which comes in three board sizes; mini-ITX, nano-ITX, and pico-ITX. When building your computer, you will need to keep in mind what type of form factor you want. Do you want to build something small that can't handle as much workload? Or, do you want a powerhouse workstation that you can add lots of functionality to? The form factor will also play a role into what expansion slots you might want to use. Understanding motherboards and their characteristics can be a big plus when fixing hardware issues, since things like the type of RAM module or processor socket are dependent on the kind of motherboard they need to fit into. Let's say you're responding to a ticket for a user who is having video problems, you don't want to make it all the way to their desk only to realize the graphics card due board as a replacement doesn't fit the motherboard their computer uses. You'll learn more about customer service and troubleshooting tactics later on in this course. But for now, make sure that your motherboard can fit any replacement or upgrade that you want to implement.

> STORAGE
So, before we get into computer storage, we need to fill in some gaps. I'm referring to things like gigabytes, bits, etc. But we actually haven't talked at all about what those metrics mean. Sorry, I kind of get a bit ahead of myself. As you might have guessed, these terms refer to data sizes. The smallest unit of a data storage is a bit. A bit can store one binary digit, so it can store a one or zero. The next largest unit of storage is called a byte, which is comprised of 8 bits. A single byte can hold a letter, number or symbol. The next largest unit is refer to as kibibyte, but we typically use the term kilobyte.
Play video starting at ::53 and follow transcript0:53
A kilobyte is made up of 1,024 bytes. If you're curious why 1 kilobyte refers to as 1,024 bytes and not 1,000 bytes, you can read more about that in the next supplemental reading. For now, here's a quick data conversion chart.
Play video starting at :1:10 and follow transcript1:10
How much does 500 gigabytes even mean? Let's take a look at the size of an average music file, which is about three megabytes. On a 500 gigabyte machine, that's approximately 165,000 music files. That's a lot of music. We store all of our computer's data on our hard drive, which allows us to store our programs, music, pictures, etc. Have you ever had an issue with your computer and lost all the data that was on your hard drive? Yeah, me too, it was the worst. This actually happens a lot and you'll probably encounter it as an IT support specialist. Make sure you backup your data to be safe. This means you should copy or save your data somewhere else, just in case something goes wrong and your hard drive crashes. That way, you won't lose all your data. There are two basic hard drive types used today. Hard disk drives, or HDDs, use a spinning platter and a mechanical arm to read and write information. The speed that the platter rotate allows you to read and write data faster. This is commonly referred to as RPM, or revolution per minute. A hard drive with a higher RPM is faster, so if you go out and buy a hard drive today, you might see something like a 500 gigabyte with 5400 RPM. HDDs are prone to a lot more damage because there are a lot of moving parts. This susceptibility to damage went away with a new type of storage called solid state drive, or SSD. SSDs have no moving parts. Are you familiar with a USB stick? SSDs are created in a similar way. The information is stored on microchips and data travels a lot faster than HDDs. The form factor for SSDs is also slimmer compared to their HDD cousins. Sounds great, doesn't it? So why doesn't everyone use SSDs? Well, both have their pros and cons. HDDs are more affordable, but they're more prone to damage. SSDs are less risky when it comes to losing data, but they're also more expensive. So you may not buy as much memory storage in SSDs than what you can get in HDDs. Believe it or not, there are even hybrid SSD and HDD drives out there. They offer SSD performance where you need it. For things like system performance, such as booting your computer, along with hard disk drives for less important stuff, like basic file storage. There are a few interfaces that hard drives use to connect to our system. ATA interfaces are the most common ones. The most popular ATA drive is a serial ATA, or SATA, which uses one cable for data transfers. SATA drives are hot swappable. Great term, don't you think? It means you don't have to turn off your machine to plug in a SATA drive. SATA drives move data faster and use a more efficient cable, like this one, than it's predecessors. SATA has been the de facto interface for HDDs today. But people quickly found that using a SATA cable wasn't good enough for some of the blazing fast SSDs that were coming on the market. The interface couldn't keep up with speed of the newest SSDs. So another interface standard was created called NVM Express, or NVMe.
Play video starting at :4:18 and follow transcript4:18
Instead of using a cable to connect your drive to your machine, the drive was added as an expansion slot, which allows for greater throughput of data and increased efficiency.

> POWER SUPPLIES
So most power supply units have a fan, which is right in here. They also has voltage information just normally listed underneath or on the side, and cables, like this one, to power your motherboard, and, A power cable.
Play video starting at :1:15 and follow transcript1:15
Have you ever plugged one of your devices into the wall outlet and fried your device? If you haven't, you're really lucky. After completing this lesson, hopefully you will know how to avoid that situation. To understand electricity, we must use the example of water pipes. Our sinks have a faucet that's connected to a pressurized water tank. When we turn on the faucet, water comes out. This is sort of like how electricity works. When we plug an appliance into a wall outlet and turn it on, a flow of electricity comes out. If we added more pressure to our water tank, would more water come out of it? The higher the pressure, the more water there will be. When it comes to electricity, we refer to the pressure as voltage. So when I was on vacation, to my surprise, when I plugged in that 120 volt appliance into a 220 volt outlet, the power came busting through and fried my charger. If it was the other way around, and a 220 volt appliance was plugged into a 120 volt outlet, I wouldn't have seen the same outcome. I'll still be able to get electricity, but slowly. This would be similar to if a water tank whose only half pressurized, it will drew water, but slowly. In some cases though, this can deteriorate the performance of the device and cause damage in the long term. As a general rule, be sure to use the proper voltage for your electronics. We refer to the amount of electricity coming out as current or amperage, and it's measured in amps. We can think of amps as pulling electricity, as opposed to voltage, which pushes electricity. Amps will pull as much electricity needed, but voltage will just give you everything. Look on the back of the one of your device charges, you might see something like 1 or 2.1a. Charging a device with 2.1 amps will actually charge a device faster because it's able to put current from a 2.1 amp than a 1 amp charger. Finally, the other important part of the electricity that you will need to know is the wattage. Wattage is the amount of volts and amps that a device needs. If your power supply has too low of a wattage, you won't be able to power your computer, so make sure you have enough. This doesn't mean that if you have a large power supply, you'll overpower your computer. Power supplies just give you the amount that your system needs. It's best to error on the side of large power supplies. You can power most basic desktops with a 500 watt power supply, but if you're doing something more demanding on your computer, like playing a high-resolution video game or doing a lot of video production and rendering, you'll likely need a bigger power supply for your computer. On the other hand, if all you're doing is just browsing the Web, the power supply that comes with your computer should be fine. All kinds of issues are caused by a bad power supply. Sometimes the computer doesn't even turn on at all. Since power supplies can fail for lots of reasons like burnouts, power surges, or even lightning strikes, knowing how to diagnose power issues and replace a failed power supply is a skill every IT support specialist should have in their toolbox.

> MOBILE DEVICES 
Hi there, it's me again. You might remember me from the previous module. No worries if not, what's important is that I'm here now. We've made some updates to this program to make sure you've got the latest info on mobile devices. You'll see me again throughout the rest of this program, so keep your eyes peeled for me. Let's talk about mobile devices. Mobile devices are computers too, they have CPUs, RAM, Storage, power systems, and peripherals. How are they different from a server, a desktop computer or a laptop? They're special because they're well mobile. They're portable and usually powered by batteries. Some mobile devices are general purpose computing devices like tablets or smartphones, other mobile devices are optimized to perform a specific set of tasks like fitness monitors, e-readers, and smartwatches. Mobile devices are usually very integrated. Remember the systems that we showed you earlier, the components can be taken out and held in your hand. Mobile devices build some or all of these components together in a way that you can't take apart. The smaller the device, the more integrated the components usually are. The CPU, RAM, and storage, might be soldered directly to the devices motherboard. Very small mobile devices use a system on a chip or SoC. A system on a chip packs the CPU, RAM, and sometimes even the storage onto a single chip. Not only our SoC is small, they use less battery power than if those components were separated. Even though they're small, some mobile devices use peripherals. Smartphones connect to Bluetooth headphones for example. Mobile devices can also be a peripheral. A fitness tracker is a standalone device, but it can also be a peripheral to your smartphone. That same fitness tracker might use a heart rate monitor as a peripheral. It's peripherals all the way down. Mobile devices may use standard or proprietary ports and connectors. You might need to have a specific adapter, or connector for charging a device, or connecting your mobile device to a computer. Sometimes the physical shape or the intended use of the mobile device makes a standard connection like USB a bad choice. For example, say you have a waterproof fitness tracker. If it had a Micro-USB port, that port would be damaged if exposed to water. So instead, it's designed with a custom charging interface that can be submerged underwater, here's some of the standard power, data, and display connector types you'll find used in mobile devices. This is a USB-C, next we have a lightening adapter, then a Mini-USB, and a Micro-USB, a Micro-HDMI, and a Mini-HDMI, and this is a Mini DisplayPort. Because mobile devices are generally small and have limited access to power, they run operating systems and applications software that specifically designed to maximize their performance. We'll dive into mobile operating systems and applications in future videos. As an IT support specialist, you might be responsible for helping in users with their mobile devices. This might include setup, troubleshooting, repairing, and replacing mobile devices. Don't worry,. we're going to break all of this down for you. One super important thing, mobile devices can contain a lot of personal data. Some organizations allow people to use their own personal devices for work. We call this bring your own device or BYOD. You should be careful to respect people's privacy when they bring their own devices to you for help. To know how to handle these devices is always best to refer to your organization's policy. Next up, we'll take a look at how to keep these mobile devices running without being plugged into a power outlet all the time.

> BATTERIES and CHARGING 
Sometimes instead of being plugged into a power outlet all the time, we want to take our technology with us. Mobile technology uses rechargeable batteries to carry power with the device, wherever we take it. Rechargeable devices might have an external charger for a removable batteries, or might have a cradle stand or wireless charger. So rechargeable devices might have an external charger for movable battery, or might have a cradle stand or wireless charger. Look at this phone. We're going to top up the battery just by laying it on this wireless inductive charging pad. Isn't that cool? It's also pretty clever technology. If you want to know how this works, check out the next reading. Rechargeable batteries have a limited lifespan which is measured in charge cycles. Charge cycle is one full charge and discharge of the battery. When a battery is reaching the end of its lifespan, it may take longer to charge and might not hold as much charge as when it was new. For some devices, compare the current cycle count of your battery with the rate at cycle count of that battery type to see how much more life to expect out of it. You need an external power source to add power to a battery. This could come from a wall outlet, another battery, or even a solar panel. You also need a charging circuit that manages the power transfer from the external power source to the rechargeable battery. This circuit works a lot like a power supply unit or PSU, that we looked at earlier. It makes sure the input power is converted to the correct output power. Instead of using a large PSU, rechargeable devices use more portable power adapters, power supplies, or chargers. A portable power supply, powers our device while also charging the battery. This might sound obvious, but you need to make sure that you use the right charger for the right device. Mismatching chargers to devices can damage the battery, the device, and the charger. A lot of chargers and power supplies use USB connectors, but you'll see a wide variety of charging connectors. Rechargeable batteries can be damaged by very cold or very hot environments. Don't charge or discharge rechargeable batteries unless they're within their safe operating temperature range. It's not just that a damaged rechargeable battery might not perform well, it can also be very dangerous. Batteries can swell, rupture, and sometimes even catch fire. Before working with a damaged battery, you should know how to safely handle it. You'll find some supplemental readings after this video that explains how to safely handle lithium ion batteries, which is a very common type of rechargeable battery. Safe handling procedures vary based on the battery type, so be sure to read up on proper procedures before you work with a damaged batter. When a battery reaches the end of its life, you'll need to replace it. Some devices will slow themselves down when a battery is getting old, to make the battery lasts longer. If your device is running much slower than usual or shutting down unexpectedly, one thing to check is the battery life. Some devices have batteries that are designed to be replaced by the end user, other devices have batteries that are very difficult to replace like small laptops and mobile devices. As an IT support specialist, you might receive special training on how to replace batteries and devices that you support, or you might be the person sending the device out for battery replacement and then returning the device to the end user. IT support specialist often have to troubleshoot battery life and device charging. The first step is to make sure the charger, the battery, and the device, are all designed to work with each other. We'll talk about sending out devices for repair and troubleshooting skills in future videos, so stay tuned. For iOS and Android, there are also some things that you could do to make the battery lasts as long as possible. It's a good idea for you to be familiar with these things so that you can help educate end users on the best ways to get the most out of their mobile devices. Check out the supplemental readings to learn more.

> PERIPHERALS 
So, let's take a look at the back of our computer again. Here, you'll see lots of connectors or ports. We can plug in different objects like a mouse, keyboard, and a monitor. These are known as peripherals. A peripheral is basically anything that you connect to your computer externally that adds functionality. You probably used USB devices before. USB, also known as Universal Serial Bus devices are the most popular connections for our gadgets. USB has gone through lots of changes since inception. You most commonly encounter USB 2.0, USB 3.0, and 3.1 in today's system. Here's a quick rundown of the different versions. USB 2.0 transfers speeds of 480 megabytes per second, USB 3.0 transfers speeds of five gigabytes per second, USB 3.1 transfers speeds of 10 gigabytes per second. In the chart, let's pay attention to the details. Using capital M lowercase b forward slash s instead of using capital M capital B to reference transfer speed. These are actually different units. MB is megabyte or unit of data storage, while capital M lower case b forward slash s is a megabit per second, which is a unit of data transfer rate. People often mistake speeds of 40 megabit per second to mean that you can transfer 40 megabytes of data per second. Remember, that one byte is 8 bits, so to transfer a one megabyte file in a second you need an 8 megabits per second connection speed. So, to transfer 40 megabytes of data in a second, you need a transfer speed of 240 megabits per second. You'll also need comparable USB ports to go with your devices. If you connect a USB 2.0 device into a USB 3.0 port, you won't get 3.0 transfer speeds. But you can still use the port since it's backward compatible, meaning older hardware work with newer hardware. The ports are easy to differentiate. Let me show you. In general, USB 2.0 are black and USB 3.0 are blue and 3.1 ports are teal. This may change depending on manufacturers. There are lots of types of USB connectors, and you can read about all of them in the supplemental reading right after this video. Check it out. Back to USB connectors. The most recent one is the type C connector which is meant to replace many peripheral connections. It's quickly becoming a universal standard for display and data transfer. In addition to USB peripherals, you should also be aware of display peripherals. There are some common inputs standards to know. Most computer monitors will have one or more of these connections, but you might encounter some older standards too. DVI. DVI cables generally just output video. If you need to hook up a monitor or projector for a slide presentation and you want audio too, you may be out of luck. Instead, you want to look at one of the following cables. HDMI. This has become a standard in lots of televisions and computers nowadays and outputs both video and audio. Another standard that's become popular among manufacturers is a displayPort which also outputs audio and video. In addition to audio and video, USB type C can also do data transfer and power. As an IT support specialist, you'll work with peripherals like USB devices and display devices a lot. Now, you'll be able to distinguish between the major types. In the next lesson, we're going to learn how our computer initializes all of the hardware we talked about.



