> IMPACT OF INTERNET
There's no doubt that the Internet has made it much easier for us to connect with our friends and family. But it's also made it easier to connect with everyone else in the world. We're no longer confined to our local neighborhoods. Decades ago, If you wanted to sell something you'd place your goods in your driveway, and put up signs for a garage sale. The only way someone would see this is if they drove by your neighborhood and saw your sign. We got a little more savvy and started advertising in our local newspaper. We had to pay to list our ad, but at least we were able to reach more people in our neighborhood. Then the Internet boom happened, and we could use sites like Craigslist to post an advertisement for free, and reach more people in our city. Then we were able to sell to people outside of our city, to cities in other states. Eventually, we could sell to people outside of our own country, all thanks to the Internet. Globalization is the movement that lets governments, businesses, and organizations communicate and integrate together on an international scale. It's been made possible by the Internet and information technology. Countries can communicate with each other faster. News happening on the other side of the world reaches us before we can blink. And global and financial trade have increased dramatically. Globalization has transformed almost every aspect of human society as we know it. Media and social movements have become globalized too. In 2011, several countries in the Middle East started riots and protests against their government regimes, known as the Arab Spring protests. Because of outlets like social media, their movement gained worldwide attention and citizens of many different countries banded together to take collective action. Social media movements like this have been going on for years, gathering together people from all over the world and unifying them under a single cause. The Internet has also dramatically changed the way we consume entertainment. A few years ago if you wanted to watch something on TV you had to actually sit in front of your TV right when it aired, or else you'd miss it. Then we started recording our shows, first on VHS and then on things like TiVo, so we could watch them later. But now, we have access to more TV shows and movies than we can ever watch in our entire lifetime right under fingertips. What if you wanted to listen to a new song by your favorite band? You used to have to wait until they released their album in a store, and you couldn't just buy one song, you had to buy the entire album on a CD, cassette tape, or even a vinyl record back in the day. If you wanted to get the day's news you had to wait until the next day when the newspaper would print it. Even then you weren't able to get a fraction of a fraction of a fraction of the news you can get on the Internet today. Retail stores aren't the only place you look when you want to buy something anymore. Now you can order food, clothes, books, and while just about anything on the Internet. But you don't just buy stuff off the web, you can even get an education. Colleges and universities worldwide are taking education out of the classroom and putting it into your homes. Online courses are becoming a popular way for people to get a quality education at a more convenient location, time, and price. And it's not just degrees, there's an almost infinite amount of educational tools available on the Internet. A few years ago, all this information on the internet had to be reached through your laptop or desktop. Now more than ever, people are going mobile and can access all of this information with their smartphones. It's truly an amazing time to be alive in this technological age. So, the takeaway here is that the only constant in the field of technology is change. And as an IT support specialist you'll have to stay on your toes to keep up with this dynamic shifting landscape.

> INTERNET OF THINGS 
You may have heard of the phrase Internet of Things or IoT. This concept is pretty new but already has a major impact on the future of computing. The concept is fairly simple. Basically, more and more devices are being connected to the internet in a smarter fashion. Did you know that there are now smart thermostats? Instead of manually programming them when you'll be out of the house, they'll just know when you leave and turn off the air conditioning for you. And it's not just your thermostat, many companies out there are making smarter household devices. There are fridges that can keep track of what foods you have in their, toasters that can be controlled by your smartphone, lights that can change depending on your mood and cars that drive you instead of you driving them. The world is moving towards connecting manual devices to the internet and making them smarter. These decisions have many societal implications though, especially when it comes to cybersecurity or personal privacy. But there's also a huge potential for IoT to completely transforme the world in ways we have yet to see. In the future, people may be shocked to learn that we had to do manual things like, make your own coffee or drive to the grocery store. While you may not experience working with an Internet of Things device, you should be aware that it will become a large part of the future of computing. You can learn more about IoT in the next supplementary reading.

> PRIVACY AND SECURITY 
The added convenience made possible by the Internet also makes it harder and harder for us to maintain anonymity. When you purchase something online, your buying habits can be logged, and you may be targeting with marketing. Even when you want to do something simple, like book a dinner reservation, your name, phone number, email, and maybe even a credit card number are required. Now think about the information you post publicly. Name, pictures, family, friends, and even your location, may be available to anyone online. Be aware of what you're sharing by reviewing the privacy policy of a service before you use it. It's up to you to decide if the trade-offs of a service are worth sharing your personal information. In most cases, companies are trying to build great products that make our lives easier. They may offer their products for free because you provide them with free data. Just make sure your information won't fall into the wrong hands. Privacy doesn't just affect us on a personal scale, it's also become a concern for governments. In Europe, data regulation and privacy are strictly protected to help EU citizens gain more control over their personal information. COPPA, or the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act, also regulates the information we show to children under the age of 13. There are many more examples of government regulation of privacy. It's no longer something we can think of on an individual scale. Another concern that's grown with the rise of the Internet is the issue of copyright. Imagine you create a beautiful graphic and upload it on the web for your friends to see. Then some random stranger takes your graphic, claims it as their own, and sells it for profit. Thankfully, several companies have been founded and designed specifically to help solve this issue of copyright and intellectual property theft. There are also efforts in place that you've learned about, like open source projects, that benefit from being on the Internet. In these cases, open collaboration allows the project to thrive. On top of privacy and copyright considerations, computer security is another issue that you may face in both your personal and professional life. More and more companies are being targeted in cyber security attacks. For example, the WannaCry Attack that started in Europe, infected hundreds of thousands of computers across the world. The financial loss of that attack has been estimated at over a billion dollars. Hospital computers were even infected. In a critical life threatening moment, every second matters. Not being able to perform basic medical duties, like pulling medical records, took time away from doctors and nurses and more importantly the lives of their patients. Before the WannaCry Attack, there were lots of other world wide attacks. In 2011, the Sony PlayStation network was attacked and around 77 million user accounts had personal information exposed, everything from entire governments to businesses that handle the data of millions of people have been compromised. Computer security is no longer the job of specialized security engineers, it's everyone's responsibility, and as an IT support specialist, you'll need to have a fundamental understanding of computer security. You'll get to learn these fundamentals in the course IT Security, Defense Against the Digital Dark Arts, which I'll be teaching you. I spend every day working in security. I love working in the field, because I get to help protect people and their devices from all over the globe. The security course in this program teaches you just that. You'll also learn what threats are out there and how you can prevent and mitigate them and how to secure your workplace. Next up, you're going to meet my buddy, Phelan Vendeville, who's going to introduce you to software. But before that we've got a quick quiz we've cooked up for you on all the topics we've covered so far. Take your time, and good luck.

