> HISTORY OF THE INTERNET 
You’ve learned what the Internet is and a little bit about how it works. Now, we’re going to take a step back and learn why it was created. But before we do that, I’d like to introduce myself. My name is Gian Spicuzza and I'm a program manager in Android security. I help protect Android's 2 billion plus users by managing new security features for each of Android's desserts or versions of Android. I've always loved technology and I worked in IT since I was 16 and throughout university. I would fill my pastime reading about new tech and building servers from old computer parts in my basement. My earliest memory of working on tech is waiting for my parents to go to sleep so I could quietly dial up the Internet while the phone was free and just browse websites all night long and read about random tech things. My first jobs were as a one person IT crew at three nonprofit organizations. It was both stressful and really exciting to be responsible for everything. From configuring and administrating backup servers, to just showing new employees how to access email and use their computers. I'm really excited to be here with you. I was never a really great test taker, and my grades reflected that. But I knew with hard work and perseverance, I could build a great career in IT, and so can you. So let's get started and dig in a bit more on the Internet.
Play video starting at :1:26 and follow transcript1:26
The Internet has become an essential part of our lives. Our bank accounts, entertainment, news and education are all on the Internet. It's important to learn why that is, since some of the original designs of the Internet have reached their limitations. As an IT support specialist, you should understand what the future of the Internet holds and why. Let's go back in time to the 1950s where it all started. Remember, back then computers were huge and bulky. If you were a programmer, you needed to directly interact with these massive computers. That would get real old real fast, especially if you had several people who wanted to use the only computing resource available. In the late 1960s, the US government spun up a project called DARPA. It went on to create the earliest version of the Internet that we see today with the ARPANET. Eventually, computer programmers were able to share a single computing resource by being able to remotely access the computer. But there was still a big problem. Networks couldn't talk to each other. It wasn't until the 1970s that we had a critical breakthrough in computer networking that fixed this problem. It was thanks to computer scientists Vinton Cerf and Bob Kahn, who created the method we call the Transmission Control Protocol and the Internet Protocol, or TCP/IP. First, only a handful of computers in universities, governments, and businesses adopt TCP/IP, then hundreds. And then, in the span of 50 years, billions of computers. TCP/IP is the protocol we use on the Internet today. Finally, people around the world could send data to one another, but there was still a problem. The information they sent was just text. It wasn't centralized and it was pretty bland. Then, in the 1990s, a computer scientist by the name of Tim Berners-Lee invented the World Wide Web. It utilized different protocols for displaying information in webpages and became the predominant way of communication in accessing the Internet. Anyone who had an Internet connection at that time was able to access the information source of the World Wide Web. It's been 30 years since the creation of the World Wide Web. We've gone from sending simple email messages and viewing basic webpages to having video chats and instant news updates. Order food, buy books, and even cars in a matter of seconds. Taking an online course like this wasn't even possible until recently. The creation of the Internet that we know today was a culmination of knowledge and engineering from many brilliant scientists and organizations. If you want to learn more about the history of the Internet, check out the supplemental reading and the networking course in this program. In the next video, we'll explore the limitations of the original designs of the Internet and how these limitations affect us today.

> LIMITATIONS OF THE INTERNET 
We've mentioned IP addresses a lot in this course but we haven't actually gone into detail about them. They are actually different versions of IP addresses. The current Protocol, Internet Protocol version four or IPv4 is an address that consists of 32 bits separated into four groups. Remember, 42 bits is four bytes and one byte can be stored up to 256 values from 0 to 255. So IPv4 addresses, can be something like 73.55.242.3. Even though it might seem like a lot of possible IPv4 addresses, there are less than 4.3 billion IPv4 addresses. There are way more than 4.3 billion websites out on the web today. Some IPv4 addresses are even reserved for special purposes. So, the number of usable IP addresses is even less. A device that wants to connect to the internet, needs to have an IP address but devices around the world have already exceeded those numbers. So, where have we been getting IP addresses? IP addresses have been able to keep up with the amount of devices in the world, thanks to IPv6 or Internet Protocol version six addresses. IPv6 addresses consist of a 128 bits, four times the amount that IPv4 uses. Which means way more devices can have IP addresses. The adoption of IPv6 addresses has been slow but steady. Eventually, you will start seeing more and more IPv6 addresses in the wild. An example IPv4 for address can be something like 172.14.24.1. But an IPv6 address can be something like what you see here, quite a bit of a difference, don't you think? Here's an analogy for how big this difference is between IPv4 and IPv6. With IPv6 there are 2 to the 128 power possible IP addresses, 2 to the 128 power is an insanely huge number. So huge, that scientists had trouble describing with words just how big this number is. So, here's an analogy. Think of a grain of sand, if you scoop up a handful, do you know how many grains you have in your hand? Probably a lot but that is not even close to the number we are talking about. Now, take all the grains of sand in the entire world, assuming there are roughly 7 and a half times 10 to the 18th power grains of sand in the world. That still would not be enough IPv6 addresses. Now, let us take all the sand from multiple earths, now you are close to what that number would be. It is a crazy large number. Just know that we will not be running out of IPv6 addresses anytime soon. Another mitigation tool that we have been able to use is NAT or Network Address Translation. This lets organizations use one public IP address and many private IP addresses within the network. Think of NAT like a receptionist at a company. You know what number to dial to get to the company and once you reach the receptionist, he can transfer your call to one of the private numbers inside the company. Now, instead of companies using hundreds of public IP addresses, they can just use one IP address. Remember the routers we talked about earlier? One task you might need to perform when you are an I.T. support specialist, is to configure NAT on a router to facilitate communication between your company's network and the outside world. There are lots of other limitations that we have had to deal with. You'll learn more about them in the networking course. For now, you should have a general understanding of why IPv4 is so limiting for us today and how IPv6 helped solve that.

