> WHAT IS OPEN-LDAP? 
In the last lesson you dove headfirst into the popular directory service Active Directory. You learned how to add users, password, groups and even modify access level for groups, using group policies. Another popular directory service that's used today is the free and open source service OpenLDAP. OpenLDAP, which stands for lightweight directory access protocol operates very similar to Active Directory. Using LDAP notation or LDAP data interchange format, or LDIF, you can authenticate, add, remove users, groups, computers and so on in a directory service. OpenLDAP can be used on any operating system, including Linux, macOS, even Microsoft Windows. However, since Active Directory is Microsoft's propriety software for directory services, we recommend that you use that on Windows instead of OpenLDAP. But its helpful to know that OpenLDAP is open source so it can be used on a variety of platforms. There are a few ways you can interact with an OpenLDAP directory. First, you can use the command-line interface and passing commands to create and manage directory entries. You can also use a tool like phpLDAPadmin, which offers you a web interface that you can use to manage your directory data, much like the Windows Active Directory GUI that you're familiar with. You can read more about how to set up OpenLDAP and phpLDAPadmin in the next reading. In this lesson we'll give you a high level overview of the operations you can do in OpenLDAP via commands and how they work. To begin we'll just open the OpenLDAP package using this command. I'm going to get into my Linux environment and type up this command. Sudo apt-get install slapd ldap-utils.
Play video starting at :2:8 and follow transcript2:08
Put my password in and accept.
Play video starting at :2:13 and follow transcript2:13
Once you install the packages it'll prompt you enter in an administrative password for LDAP. So let's go ahead and do that.
Play video starting at :2:21 and follow transcript2:21
And then hit Ok.
Play video starting at :2:24 and follow transcript2:24
Then confirm your password, then hit Ok.
Play video starting at :2:34 and follow transcript2:34
Now that it's installed we're actually going to reconfigure the slapd package so that we can fine tune our setting. To do that we're going to run the following command.
Play video starting at :2:45 and follow transcript2:45
I'm going to clear my window, and then run sudo dpkg-reconfigure slapd.
Play video starting at :2:59 and follow transcript2:59
This is going to ask us a bunch of questions about our new setup. We won't answer all of these options, but you can learn more about them in, you've guessed it, the supplemental reading. For now let's just fill out the settings with these values. So the first option is Omit OpenLDAP server configuration? I'm going to go ahead and say No. Next, DNS domain name, is similar to Windows AD, this is our organization domain. Let's use example.com.
Play video starting at :3:28 and follow transcript3:28
And then hit Ok.
Play video starting at :3:30 and follow transcript3:30
Organization name, let's use example.
Play video starting at :3:35 and follow transcript3:35
Administrator password, let's do the same thing that we entered before.
Play video starting at :3:42 and follow transcript3:42
For the database let's use MBD. Do you want the database to be removed when slapd is purged? Let's go ahead and say No. Then it's asking us if we would like to move old database. We're going to say Yes for now. And then it'll say, Allow LDAP version 2 protocol? I'm going to say No.
Play video starting at :4:2 and follow transcript4:02
That's it, now you have a running OpenLDAP server. We're really cooking now. Let's keep going.

> MANAGING OPEN LDAP 
It's easy to manage OpenLDAP through a web browser and tool like phpLDAPadmin, but you can also use command line tools to achieve the same result. I'd recommend you look into setting up PHPLDAPadmin, if this is your first set up with open LDAP. For instructions about how to set up a PHPLDAPadmin, check out the supplementary readings. In this lesson, we're going to quickly run down a few other commands that will allow you to add, modify and remove entries in your directory. To begin using command line tools, you need to use something known as LDIF files, pronounced LDIF. We've already seen LDIF format or LDAP notation in action. It's just a text file that lists attributes and values that describe something. Here's a simple example of an LDIF file for a user. Even without understanding what the syntax of this file is saying, we can infer that it's talking about an employee named Cindy who works in the Engineering department at the company example.com. We've talked a little bit what the attributes are referring to in an earlier lesson. But you can refer to the supplemental reading if you want to know what the specific fields mean. For our purposes here, though, we just want to see a high level overview of how this works. Once you've written your LDIF files, you're practically done. Depending on what task you want to do to your directory, you'd run commands like these. Ldapadd, this takes the input of an LDIF file, and adds the context of the files. ldapmodify, as you can guess, this modifies an existing object. ldapdelete, this will remove the object that the LDIF file refers to. ldapsearch, this will search for entries in your directory database.
Play video starting at :1:56 and follow transcript1:56
It's not important to note the syntax of these commands, you can always look up a syntax on official documentation. But as you can see, it's not scary to work with OpenLDAP. It operates in a very similar way to Windows Active Directory, or AD. You can take this knowledge and populate your directory just like you did in Windows AD. If you're curious about the syntax of these commands, check out the supplemental reading on using LDIF files and LDAP commands. Again, if you're considering LDAP as your solution to your directory service needs, I'd recommend looking into the web manager tool PHPLDAP admin that we've included a link to in the next reading. Just like Windows AD, this topic can be pretty extensive. So think about which directory solution best fits the IT needs for your organization. There are lots of reasons why you might want to deploy the help of a directory service like OpenLDAP or Active Directory when working in a systems administration role. Directory services are great for centralized authentication, keeping track of where computers are in your organization, who can access them and more. Make sure to play around and familiarize with OpenLDAP or PHLDAP admin to get a better sense of how these directory services work. Checking out the official documentation is always a good place to start. By now, if you've learned about all the essential IT infrastructure services. The next topic we'll shift to is how to make sure all the hard work you've put in to your IT infrastructure doesn't go to waste by learning about disaster recovery and backups. Your hard work is really paying off, high five to that. Now take a moment to complete the quiz we put together for you, then we'll meet you back in the next video.

