> FILE SERVICES 
In the operating systems course, we discussed files in depth and how we use and modify them on our OSs. In this lesson, we're going to run down some of the file services we can use that will allow us to be productive as an organization.
Play video starting at ::26 and follow transcript0:26
Employees need to be able to share files with each other, whether that's to collaborate or exchange information. We talked about shared folders in Windows in the last course, but in this lesson I'm going to talk about more scalable and efficient ways to share data, enter file storage services.
Play video starting at ::43 and follow transcript0:43
File storage services allow us to centrally store files and manage access between files and groups. You can set up a file storage server that will let users access a shared directory to modify or add files and much, much more. In the next lesson, we'll go into depth on two of the more popular ways you can use to manage, store, and share files over a network.
Play video starting at :1:4 and follow transcript1:04
The other way to maintain a file storage service is by using a Cloud file storage provider. There are lots of providers that offer secure and easily managed file storage. You can read about some of the more popular ones in the supplemental reading. For now, let's see how to manage a file storage service ourselves.

> NETWORK FILE STORAGE 
In the last course, we mentioned that very few file systems can be used across all major operating systems. FAT32 is a popular FAT system that's compatible with Windows, Linux, and Mac OSes. But it has severe limitations on the amount of data you can store on a volume. What happens if you have multiple users that want to share files between each other? Well, they need to store the files somewhere and they need to be able to retrieve the files over a network. Network file system, or NFS, allows us to do this. It's a protocol that enables files to be shared over a network. The FAT system is compatible on all major operating systems. The easiest way to setup an NFS server is by using a Linux environment. You can install NFS server software that modify the configuration files for the directories that you want to allow shared access to. Once you do that, the NFS service will be running in the background of the server. On each client machine that wants to access a server, you just mount the file system the way you would any other file system. Except, you'd use the host name instead of a physical disk device. From there, you can access the shared directory like you would any other folder in a computer. Check out the next supplementary reading for some examples of NFS server software you can configure for Linux. NFS is a good solution to file sharing within the network, but as with anything on a network heavy usage will slow down the file system. While NFS works with all major operating systems there are still interoperability issues with Windows. If your fleet consists mostly of Windows machines you might want to look at using something like Samba. Samba services are similar to NFS since she can centrally share and manage files services. Also, all major operating systems can use a Samba file sharing. The only reason you might want to consider Samba over NFS, is because it works better with Windows operating systems. It also includes other services that can be integrated with your organization like printer services, we'll talk about printer services in an upcoming lesson. One thing to note is that, you may hear the term Samba or SMB. These two are differen. SMB is a protocol that Samba implements. You can read more about SMB in the supplemental reading. Fun fact, when you create a Windows shared folder it's actually using the SMB protocol, Samba itself is a software service suite used for file services which you can also read more about in the supplemental reading. There are lots of other file storage services that you can use and you can read more about them in, wait for it, the supplemental readings. A relatively affordable solution for FAT storage hardware is to use a network attached storage or NAS, pronounced NAS. Instead of setting up a dedicated server like you would other services. NASes are computers that are optimized for file storage. They usually come with an operating system best stripped down in order just to serve files over a network. They also come with lots of storage space. Whatever method you choose, central file storage and management is an important part of I.T. infrastructure for any organization.

> MOBILE SYCHRONIZATION 
The great thing about mobile devices is that you can take them almost anywhere, but the risk is that they contain all kinds of information that will be hard to replace. Let's admit it, mobile devices can sometimes be pretty easy to lose. Think about all that data, personal information like emails, photos, videos, calendars, health data, location data, you Candy Crush high score. It's also that you don't want to lose. So in this video we are going to check out some ways that you can protect your valuable data even if your mobile device is damaged lost or stolen. So how did we do this? For each type of important data on your mobile device, you want to make sure that the data is synchronized or synced with another location. When you synchronize data, you make sure that the data is the same in two or more places. How does this work? Well if a calendar appointment is only stored on your device, then you need your device with you to view the appointment, plus if you lose access to the device, you lose all the appointment details, now you have no idea what time are supposed to be meeting your friends for coffee. But if you use a calendar that syncs your data, you are all good. A calendar that signed into an online account will sync any schedule changes or new appointments to a central location in the Cloud. If you sign into the calendar on another device but using the same account, you will see the same set of appointments. As an IT support specialist, it's important that you understand what data and which apps are critical to your organization and also what's critical to the end users that you support. Most organizations will care about business data like email, calendars, and contact information. You might also have apps that manage documents, photos, videos and so on. Your challenge is to make sure that if the device is lost, you can still recover the data. The best way to do this in which you might be responsible for in your IT support role, is to make sure business-critical data is synced in at least two places. Lucky for us many mobile apps automatically sync, in some cases mobile apps already used the Cloud as their canonical data source. For example, if you sign into an account for your email and calendar apps, they will probably get all of their data from servers in the Cloud, or your organization's local IT infrastructure. If you lose your phone, you could just sign into the same account on a different device and get the exact same data. With an app like this, you won't lose any data if the device is damaged, lost or stolen. It's pretty cool, right? Some apps can be configured to every so often automatically sync or back up data to a Cloud storage service. This means that you might lose some data if you lose access to a mobile device, but the loss will be limited to the time since the last backup. Other apps might store their data only on the local device and not be able to back up their data to the Cloud, in that case you want to synchronize your data to another location in case something happens to your device. Maybe you remember from an earlier video how each app on your mobile device has a specific location where it's allowed to store data. Well IOS and Android both support backing up this app data to the Cloud. Not only will these mobile OSs backup app data but also your devices' accounts and settings, too. Want to know more about how to set up device backup to the Cloud? Then check out the supplemental reading for details.

