> IMAGING SOFTWARE 
We learned how to install an operating system for ourselves, but when you work in an IT support role, you have to install operating systems for everyone else. Installing an operating system with a single USB stick like we did in the very early lessons of this program, can get extremely time consuming, especially when you need to do it for lots of machines. Fortunately, in the IT world we use fantastic tools to make our jobs easier. Remember that imaging a machine, means to format a machine with an image of another machine. This includes everything, from the operating system to the settings. In this lesson, we are going to briefly touch upon some of the options you can use to image machines, and help deploy operating systems a little easier.

> OPERATING SYSTEMS DEPLOYEMENT METHODS 
One tool we can use to image computer is a disk cloning tool. It makes a copy of an entire disk and allows you to back up a current machine or set up a new one. There are lots of discloning tools out there to help you complete this task. The benefit of disk cloning over a standalone installation media is that you can also install settings and folders that you might need. One of the many disk cloning tools out there is the open source software Clonezilla. It can be used to backup and restore a single machine or many machines simultaneously. A popular commercial imaging tool is Symantec Ghost. To read more about other disk cloning software, check out the supplemental reading right after this video. With disk imaging lots of tools offer different ways you can clone a disk. One option is disk-to-disk cloning where you connect an external hard drive to the machine you want to clone. You can connect a hard drive like your HDDs and SSDs into something known as an external hard drive dock. These devices are great IT tools that kind of look like toasters. Once you connect your external hard drive, you can use any disk cloning tool of your choice. We're going to show you a really quick example of how disk cloning works. Let's use the Linux command line tool dd to copy files. Dd is a lightweight tool that's also used to clone a drive. Again, you can use any tools you want to clone your disks, but right now we're just going to use dd. Let's make a copy of the USB drive I have connected in my laptop then save it as an image file. First, we want to make sure we have this drive unmounted.
Play video starting at :1:52 and follow transcript1:52
Then, we want to run dd.
Play video starting at :2:12 and follow transcript2:12
You don't have to know how dd works to use this command. Actually, you should check out the final supplemental reading to learn more about this tool. This just says, I'm going to copy the contents of /dev/SDD which is the USB drive and save it to the desktop in an image file. Once the image file is saved, if we open it up we should see the exact same contents as the USB drive.
Play video starting at :2:45 and follow transcript2:45
You can use dd for larger disks like hard drives and it'll function the same way. Pretty cool, right? Another method you can use to image a machine is to request the images directly from the network. Lots of operating system manufacturers today offer network initiated deployments. This means no more smessy standalone installation media. Instead, you can just download and install an operating system through the network. If you want to use your own images and not the built in network boot options for your computers, there are other options for that too. We don't discuss the specifics of them here but they require a bit of automation to get going. It doesn't matter if it's a laptop, desktop, Windows OS, Linux OS e.t.c. If you're managing the operating system deployment for a company, you want to keep some aspects of hardware standardization in mind. Imagine if your company has a different laptop with different drivers that needed to be installed. This can get tedious to maintain. It's usually a good idea to try and standardize what type of hardware you use in a company to make your job of deploying operating systems a little easier. Okay, you're so close to finishing this course. We've got a final pair of assessments for you where you'll use logs to help you track down some issues.

> MOBILE DEVICE RESETTING AND IMAGING 
When a mobile device is built, it's installed with an operating system at the factory. So a factory reset returns the device back to the state it was in when the device well shipped from the factory. You'll have to factory reset mobile devices a lot as an IT support specialist. You might do this before reassigning a device to another end-user, before sending a device out for repair, or as a last resort when troubleshooting a misbehaving device. Don't forget a factory reset will remove all data apps and customization from the device. Make sure that anything you don't want to lose has been backed up or synced to the Cloud. We'll cover mobile device synchronization and backup in a future video. Another heads up, watch out for expansion storage. Additional storage devices like SD cards or USB drives can contain personal or proprietary data. Doing a factory reset while expansion storage is attached might erase data that you intend to keep. Just as bad, the factory reset for lots of devices may leave the contents of expansion storage intact. You don't want to re-purpose or decommission a device with personal or proprietary data still attached. One final thing, in Android and iOS you need the primary account credentials in order to perform a factory reset. This is so stolen devices can not be easily factory reset and then resold. Overtime, mobile device manufacturers will release updates to the devices operating system. These updates will usually be delivered over the air or OTA. OTA update is one that's downloaded and installed by the mobile device itself. There are times when you might need to use a computer to install operating system updates, some mobile devices like fitness trackers and medical devices might not have mobile or WiFi network interfaces to contact the internet with. Maybe the mobile device won't boot or doesn't have a good enough data connection to download the update itself. In these cases you can re-flash or overwrite the OS of the device from a computer. But be careful, pay close attention to the devices instructions for re-flashing. For some devices re-flashing will preserve the end-user data on the device, but for others the end result will be like a factory reset. The details will be different from one device to another. The basic steps are: one, download the update to a computer; two, attach the mobile device to a computer using a USB cable; and then three run some software on the computer that will re-flash the mobile device. In the supplemental reading, you'll find instructions on how to restore iOS and Android devices from a computer. For other kinds of devices, refer to the device manufacturers documentation on how to perform a factory reset or re-flash using a computer.

> INTERVIEW ROLE PLAY: OPERATING SYSTEMS 
Hi, I'm Rob. I'm Candace. Congrats on making it through this course. Now that you've made it this far, we're here to give you a sneak peek into what an interview on the technical subjects covered by this course might look like. We hope this will help you have a better idea of what to expect in your next interview. Just remember to keep learning and keep practicing.
Play video starting at ::33 and follow transcript0:33
All right. So for this scenario, let's say that you stopped by to see a user at their desk and they reported some kind of application issue. When you get there, they show you the problem. They're trying to launch an application from a shortcut on their desktop and every time they double-click on it, they get this generic error message that says, "There was an error launching the application." Start troubleshooting that for me. What OS are you using and what's the name of the application? Say it's Linux desktop and it's a custom application. We'll say that I built it in-house. Let's call it Application X. Okay. Do you remember the last time this worked? Sure. We can say it worked on Friday and today is Monday. Okay. Do you know if there's any other users that's having this issue? So this is the first report of it but it's still early on a Monday. Okay. Are you aware if there is any type of updates that happened over the weekend? Not that I'm aware but is there any way we can check? So we can check the Apt log. What is Apt? Apt is pretty much a utility that we use in installing applications and updates. Great. Cool. So where were we? Can you walk me through where we can find the logs for Apt? I'm actually not sure where the logs for the application would be at. Great, and how might you find it out if this was a real-world scenario? We can probably check the main page or search online. Okay. Great, that's a good idea. So, let's say that you're able to find out that the log is in slash var, slash log, slash apt, and the file that we're looking for is history.log. Now that you've got that file, we've got a hundred different entries in here. How do we find what we're looking for specifically just for this application? We can use the grep command with the application name. Okay. Let's say we do that and we find that there was an update done just over this past weekend. So it's actually possible that the update could have caused this issue. There could be a missing dependency or the application could have gotten corrupted. So we can also check permissions, too. So where do we start? So I want you to run a few updates just to make sure everything's installed and there's no missing dependencies. So first, I want you to run sudo apt get update and then sudo apt get upgrade. Okay. Great. So let's say that those both run, they complete successfully, what do we do now? So let's try and launch the application. So it still fails, same exact error. So I think now, we should probably check the permissions. All right. How do we do that? So first, you want to get the location. So we can probably get the location by right clicking on the shortcut and then seeing what the command section says. Okay. So we do that and let's say it says application dash x as the command. So now, you want to use the which command with the location that provide it. Okay. We'll say it's located in slash usr, slash bin. So now, you want to navigate with cd to the directory of that application. Okay. Say we're there. Okay. So now, you want to list out all the permissions. So you want to do ls space hyphen L? Okay, so here's what I see. Dash RWX, R dash X, dash dash dash, then it says root, space, root. Can you explain to me what this all means? R stands for read, W stands here write, X stands for execute. The first [inaudible] three is associated with the owners of the application, the second set of three is associated with the groups of the application, and then the last set of three is associated for other or users. Root is associated with the owner and then the second root is associated with the group. Okay. So after looking at all that, does anything stand out as wrong here? Yes. So since the last [inaudible] three is associated with users and other, I'm noticing that there's no read or execute permissions for this application. Okay. How do we correct that? So we can use a change modify command, ch mod, to update the permissions. Okay. So now it's fixed for me, we tried the application, everything works. Any follow up that we need to do? Yes. I would want to notify the owners of the application because it's going to affect a lot of users and this will also help prevent reoccurring issues from happening. Okay. Good. Thank you. In this scenario, we saw a lot of back and forth which is very common for troubleshooting interviews. The initial description was very broad and the candidate used several follow-up questions to better scope the problem. Since the error message wasn't clear, there were several possible causes of the problem. Eliminating the most likely culprits first allowed us to keep trying until we found the actual cause. We also showed that it's okay if you don't know everything. The candidate didn't know where the log for apt is stored but she explained how she would find that out if this were a real-life issue she we're trying to address. When you do that, it shows that you're resourceful and a good problem solver. It's impossible to know everything but knowing where to find answers is a critical skill for an IT support specialist. That's it for now. See you again at the end of our next course.

