> REMOTE CONNECTION AND SSH 
In this lesson, we're going to talk about important part of computing that makes working in IT support a little easier. Actually, it makes things a lot easier for just about anyone. Picture this, you're on your way to an important meeting. You've been rehearsing for this presentation all week and now you're ready to show the big wigs what you got. But wait, the slide deck, where is it? It's not on your laptop. Where could it be? It turns out you forgot your only copy on your desktop at home. It's too late now to turn around and get it, so you sit there dreading the inevitable. But wait a minute, suddenly you remember that you have a remote connection setup from your laptop to your desktop. You use this connection to log into your computer at home, and just as if you are sitting at home, you're able to grab the file from your desktop and copy it to your laptop. You then proceed to give one amazing presentation. Consider another scenario, you bought a computer at a store and you're having a lot of issues with it. Store has a computer help desk that can help you with issues, but it's after hours and the store's closed. You really need to get your computer issue fixed, so what are your options? Fortunately, the store provides 24-7 tech support online. Now, instead of waiting until a physical store is open again, you can reach a tech online and have them help you with your issue through a remote connection. Remote connection makes working in an IT support role much easier since it allows us to manage multiple machines from anywhere in the world. In this lesson, we're going to learn about remote connection. SSH or secure shell is a protocol implemented by other programs to securely access one computer from another. To use SSH, you need to have an SSH client installed on the computer you're connecting from along with an SSH server on the computer you're trying to connect to. Keep in mind that when we say SSH server, we don't mean another physical machine that serves a data. An SSH server is just software. On the remote machine, the SSH server is running as a background process. It constantly checks if a client is trying to connect to it, then will authenticate its requests. The most popular program to use SSH within Linux is the OpenSSH program. We'll talk about how to use SSH from a Windows machine using the popular Open Source program PuTTY. For now, let's just talk about what happens when you use SSH. We're going to show you an example of SSH into a remote machine. So first things first, to login to a remote machine, we have to have an account on that computer, we also need the host name or IP address of that computer. Let's test this. So sshcindy@ IP address.
Play video starting at :2:48 and follow transcript2:48
We get this message, the authenticity of host and then the IP address can't be established. This message is just saying we've never connected to this machine before and our SSH client can't really verify or connect to a machine we want to connect to, but we can verify this is the right machine. So let's just go ahead and type yes.
Play video starting at :3:19 and follow transcript3:19
Now, this host gets saved to the computer as a known host, so we won't get this message again when we try to login to it. Now that we're connected through SSH, any of the text commands that we type are sent securely to the SSH server. From here, you can even launch an application that'll let you see a gooey instead of working directly in the shell. You can read more about how to do that in the supplemental reading. We can connect to SSH using passwords as you saw earlier. This way of authenticating to remote machine is pretty standard, but it's not super secure. The alternative is using an SSH authentication key. SSH keys come in a set of two keys called private and public keys. You can think of them as actual physical keys to a special safe. You can use one key to lock the safe, but it won't unlock it. The other key can then only unlock the safe but not lock it. That's basically how public and private keys work. You can lock something with the public key, but you can only unlock it with a private key and vice versa. This ensures that whatever is in the safe is available to only those with the public and private keys. You'll learn about the technical details of public and private keys in our IT security course. Don't worry if this doesn't make sense right now, it will. That's basically how SSH works. Not too scary, right? Another way that you can connect securely to remote machine is through VPN. A VPN is a Virtual Private Network, it allows you to connect to a private network like your work network over the internet. Think of it as a more sophisticated SSH with a lot more setup. It allows you to access resources like shared file servers and network devices as if you are connected to your work network. Spoiler alert, we'll also touch upon the technical details behind VPN in the IT security course. We've covered a lot about remote connections and how they work. We'll talk more about the popular remote connection programs for Windows and Linux and how to set them up in the system administration course.

> REMOTE CONNECTIONS ON WINDOWS 
The ability to make remote connections is equally useful on Windows computers. PuTTY is a free open-source software that you can use to make remote connections through several network protocols including SSH. You can visit the PuTTY website to download the entire software package with a Microsoft installer. Those are the MSI files we talked about earlier. Or you can choose a specific executable which provides the functionality you're after, like putty.exe. The PuTTY downloads page is linked in the next supplemental reading in case you want to check it out. Once you've downloaded and installed PuTTY, you can use it by launching the GUI.
Play video starting at ::40 and follow transcript0:40
A window will appear showing you the basic options for your connection. Make a note of the host name, port, and connection type options. By default, the port is set to 22 which is the default port the SSH protocol uses and the connection type is set to SSH. All you need to do is type in the host name or IP address of the computer you want to connect to,
Play video starting at :1:6 and follow transcript1:06
then click open start up a new SSH session.
Play video starting at :1:18 and follow transcript1:18
Now I've SSHed into a remote computer. Running PuTTY from the GUI isn't your only option. You can also use it on the command line. Open a PowerShell prompt and type out the application name like this,
Play video starting at :1:38 and follow transcript1:38
then tell it you want to connect via SSH by adding the dash SSH option. You could also provide the user an address in the form of user@IP address and specifying the port at the end. Altogether, the command would look something like this.
Play video starting at :2:2 and follow transcript2:02
PuTTY also comes with a tool called Plink or PuTTY link which is built into the command line after PuTTY is installed. You can use Plink to make remote SSH connections too. SSH can be super useful especially if you want to connect from a computer running Windows to a Linux-based operating system running remotely. Microsoft actually provides another way to connect to other Windows computers called the Remote Desktop Protocol or RDP. There are also RDP clients for Linux and OS 10 too, like RealVNC and Microsoft RDP on Mac. We'll add some links to these clients in the supplemental reading. RDP provides users with a graphical user interface to remote computers, provided the remote computer has enabled incoming RDP connections. A client program called the Microsoft Terminal Services Client or mstsc.exe is used to create RDP connections to remote computers. You can enable remote connections on your computer by opening up the start menu, right clicking on "This PC", then selecting "Properties".
Play video starting at :3:9 and follow transcript3:09
From there, select "Remote Settings",
Play video starting at :3:18 and follow transcript3:18
and then pick an option from the remote desktop portion of the panel. There are some security implications that come with allowing people to remotely connect to your computer. You should only let users who you trust do this. Typically, in an industry setting, these kinds of settings are usually set by the system administrator for the company's computers that connect to the network. Once you've allowed connections on the remote computer and provided you're on the list of users allowed to access it, you can use the Remote Desktop Protocol client mstsc.exe to connect to it from anywhere else on the network.
Play video starting at :3:57 and follow transcript3:57
You can launch the RDP client in a few ways. You can type "mstsc" at the run box or look up Remote Desktop connections in the Start Menu.
Play video starting at :4:14 and follow transcript4:14
Once you've launched the client, it'll ask for the name or IP address of the computer you want to connect to. The Windows RDP client can also be launched from the command line, where you can specify more parameters like slash admin if you want to connect to the remote machine with administrative credentials. We've linked to the RDP documentation in the supplementary reading in case you want to learn more.

> REMOTE CONNECTION FILE TRANSFER 
Have you ever tried sending a file over to a coworker? What methods do you use? Do you attach it to an email and send it, or do you copy the file to a USB drive and then transfer the file that way?
Play video starting at ::23 and follow transcript0:23
There are lots of ways to transfer files. In this lesson, we're going to talk about a method that uses remote connection. SCP, or secure copy, is a command you can use in Linux to copy files between computers on a network.
Play video starting at ::37 and follow transcript0:37
It utilizes SSH to transfer the data. So just like you would SSH into a machine you can send a file that way.
Play video starting at ::45 and follow transcript0:45
Let's see this in action. Let's say you want to copy over a file from our computer to another computer. To do this, we can run the SCP command with a few flags. So SCP, Desktop, myfile, over to cindy@,
Play video starting at :1:14 and follow transcript1:14
In this command, we run the SCP command with the path of the file we want to transfer to the user account, hostname, and path of where we want to copy the file to. Now, it prompts us for the login information of the computer we want to send the file to. After we enter this, we can verify that the file successfully copied over.
Play video starting at :1:37 and follow transcript1:37
And there it is. The SCP command is a super useful tool if you need to copy files to and from computers in a network. You can read more about the command by checking out the Manpage.

> REMOTE CONNECTION FILE TRANSFER ON WINDOWS 
How can we share files and data over the network on a Windows computer? Well it just so happens that the PuTTY program we talked about a couple lessons back supports the SCP protocol.
Play video starting at ::22 and follow transcript0:22
The PuTTY package comes with a tool called the PuTTy Secure Copy Client, or pscp.exe. You can use it to copy files in a very similar way to the Linux SCP command. Let's take a look.
Play video starting at ::38 and follow transcript0:38
Pscp.exe, and I'm going to grab a file from my desktop,
Play video starting at ::46 and follow transcript0:46
Then I'm going to copy it to my Linux workstation.
Play video starting at ::55 and follow transcript0:55
And then I'm going to add the location of where I want to copy it to.
Play video starting at :1:4 and follow transcript1:04
Now, if you go back to my Linux workstation,
Play video starting at :1:12 and follow transcript1:12
We can see that it was copied. Using PuTTY or SCP to transfer files can be a little time-consuming, especially if you need to transfer files to multiple machines. As an alternative, Windows came up with a built in mechanism to share files by using the concept of shared folders.
Play video starting at :1:28 and follow transcript1:28
Shared folders do pretty much what you'd expect from their name. You tell Windows you want to share a folder with a person or group of people, then drop some files into it. Anyone you've shared the folder with can then access those files. Sharing folders in Windows is easy. Just right-click on the folder you want to share, Then mouse over the Share with option, And then pick specific people from here.
Play video starting at :2: and follow transcript2:00
From here, you can add the individual users or groups you want to share the folder with. There's even an option to add everyone to the sharing permissions, which might be convenient, but isn't super secure.
Play video starting at :2:13 and follow transcript2:13
Once you've shared the folder, you can access it from other computers. Start by opening up This PC, Then going into the Computer tab. And from here, you can map the folder directly to your computer with the map network drive option.
Play video starting at :2:34 and follow transcript2:34
Finally, on another computer, you can visit it directly from the run box by typing in backslash, whatever the computer name is, and then backslash the folder name that you mapped it to. You might be interested to know that you can share folders from the command line too, using the net share command. Net share lets you do the same thing as the GUI sharing workflow, and you'll need to specify what kind of permissions you'd like to give which users. Let's say you wanted to give everyone on your network full permissions to a folder called shareme.
Play video starting at :3:3 and follow transcript3:03
You could execute this command from an elevated or administrator level PowerShell prompt.
Play video starting at :3:10 and follow transcript3:10
Net share shareme, let's see, Users,
Play video starting at :3:22 and follow transcript3:22
/grant:everyone,full. Users will be able to access the share folder by using the same methods we talked about before. The net share command can also be used to list the currently shared folders on your computer by executing it without any arguments. Just like this.
Play video starting at :3:45 and follow transcript3:45
If you'd like more information on net share and its abilities, check out the documentation in the supplemental reading.

