> MANAGING SOFTWARE 
Programs, software, and applications, are terms that are synonymous with each other. For now we'll go ahead and use the term software to refer to any of these. We've already had a rundown of the different types of software. There are certain types of software that perform specific functions, like drivers, which allow us to interact with our hardware. There are applications that we use for our day to day job functions. And there are utilities that we use like a calculator, settings, and other tools. With the seemingly endless options for software, how do we know which ones to use? How do we deal with them in a workplace setting and in our personal lives? Software is always changing. Developers are releasing updates, software companies change, features are added, and so on. This constant change is completely out of our control and it can cause a lot of headaches in the IT world. Let's say the company that builds your payroll system pushes out a software update that causes settings to change or even worse completely breaks the compatibility with your own company. It can happen. You should always test new software before letting your company use it. Another thing to worry about is old software. When you run old software on your machine, you risk being exposed to cyber security attacks that take advantage of software bugs. A software bug is an error in software that causes unexpected results. We'll deep dive into computer security in a later course. For now, know that software updates usually contain critical security updates and new features, and have better compatibility with your system.
Play video starting at :1:49 and follow transcript1:49
A good guideline is to update your software constantly. Another problem that plagues the IT world when it comes to software is software management. If you're setting up a computer for someone, you want to make sure that they'll have all the necessary tools they need to hit the ground running.
Play video starting at :2:5 and follow transcript2:05
That means you'll need to install all the software required for the job.
Play video starting at :2:10 and follow transcript2:10
That also means you'll also want to remove software that isn't required for the job. We may not realize if a piece of software we installed is malicious software which causes harm to your computer. It's always a good idea to check if the software comes from a repudible source before you install it. A common industry practice is to not allow users to install software without administrator approval.
Play video starting at :2:33 and follow transcript2:33
This prevents users from installing unwanted software because they're actually blocked with an error message that says they need an administrator to enter their login credentials. Before we get too far ahead of ourselves, let's cover the basics of software management which include installing, updating, and removing software. In the videos up next, we're going to walk through how to do these steps in a Windows environment and a Linux environment. Ready, set, go.

> INSTALLING, UPDATING, AND REMOVING SOFTWARE
  ON WINDOWS 
Get ready because in this video we're going to install a program called Git. Git is a version control system that helps keep track of changes made to files and directories. Like how some word processors today have a revision history feature, if you didn't like something you wrote, you can just go back to a previous version. First, we're going to grab the install program from Git's website. We're going to download the 64-bit executable. Remember from an earlier lesson that we're using a 64-bit CPU architecture. So we should install 64-bit applications for better compatibility. Next up, you'll see the file extension .exe. This is a little different than the text or image file extensions we've seen up until now. exe is a file extension found in Windows for an executable file. We'll learn more about this in a later lesson two. For now, just double-click on this and it will ask us if we want to install the file.
Play video starting at :1:29 and follow transcript1:29
Voila, that's it. Now you can start using it.
Play video starting at :1:33 and follow transcript1:33
Some program installations might ask you to reboot. Make sure to do that since there might be some system files or processes that also need to restart for your new software to work correctly.
Play video starting at :1:45 and follow transcript1:45
To verify that you now have Git installed, you can navigate to Add or remove programs. From here, you can see what applications are installed on the machine, and there it is, Git version 2.14.1. Let's say you had an older version of Git installed and you wanted to update it to the new version. Luckily, Windows makes it easy for us to do just that. We can install it just like we did, and it'll ask if we want to upgrade to the newest version. To remove software from Windows, you can just search for the Add or remove programs setting. From there, select the application you want to remove, and you'll see a button to Uninstall. Let's go ahead and click this, and run through an uninstall of the software.
Play video starting at :2:30 and follow transcript2:30
It asks us for an administrative password. We have safety guards in place to prevent unauthorized users from installing or uninstalling software. We'll learn more about this later, but for now, since I'm an administrator, I'm just going to enter my password and uninstall the software. Once you uninstall software, restart your computer so we can do the necessary cleanup to completely get rid of it

> INSTALLING, UPDATING, AND REMOVING SOFTWARE
  ON Linux
Now that you know how to install, update, and remove software on Windows, let's do the same for Linux. Let's navigate back to the git download page. Under the Linux page, you'll actually see many different ways to install git. This is because the different Linux distributions use different package installers. Since we're using Ubuntu, we're just going to use this command; apt, install git. Apt is the command we use in Ubuntu's package manager and the install option will let us install something. Let's go ahead and run this in our terminal. We're getting an error that says permission denied. Like Windows when we install something on our machine, we need to tell the computer that we're authorized to install software. Right now, we can preface this command with another Linux command. Sudo which stands for super user do. It asks us for a password. So, let's add that in. We're getting a lot of output. It's just asking if we want to continue installing this application and since we do, I'm going to say why and enter. To update a package, you do the exact same thing as we just did and install a newer software version. To remove a package, we could also use a command pretty similar to the install command except this time we want to remove a package.
Play video starting at :1:40 and follow transcript1:40
This asks us if we want to continue with these changes. Let's go ahead and type why and enter. That's it. Now you know how to install, update, and remove software on Linux and Windows. Nice work.

> SOFTWARE AUTOMATION 
You're doing awesome. By now you've learned what software is, how it integrates with our computer, and how we manage it. It was easy to install, update, and remove software on one machine. But what if you had to do that for multiple machines? That would take up a lot of time. If only there was a way we could have it done automatically for us. Spoiler alert, there is. We use software to help us with this. There are lots of tools out there that help make managing computers easier. We use automation for this. Automation makes processes work automatically. You can even use the tools of automation like programs and scripts to help you with troubleshooting issues. So instead of reading hundreds of lines of log files manually to discover when a particular error occurred on a computer, you could write a script to read the log for you and print out only the relevant line, Software has many uses including making processes more efficient and easier. You made it all the way through software, nice work. Next, you'll meet Marty Clark, she's your instructor for troubleshooting and will talk to you about how good customer service is critical to IT support. In the meantime, work hard, soak up a ton of knowledge, and have some fun along the way.

