# The Bits and Bytes of Computer Networkin
  Course 2:

> COURSE INTRODUCTION 
Welcome to a course two, the bits and bytes of computer networking. You might remember me from the lessons on the internet in the first course, but you also might have jumped ahead, in which case, we're meeting for the first time. My name is Victor Escobedo and I'm a corporate operations engineer. My passion for IT began way back when I was nine years old and my dad brought home our first computer. He was a mechanical engineer and started using the computer to help him with this CAD work. This was the first time I was exposed to computers and later realized that you could install new software on it, including computer games. As I tinkered with the computer, shortly to my dad's dismay, I became more and more interested in how it worked and eventually started to open up the case and peek inside. I found pieces that could be removed and even something that shouldn't, learning through trial and error along the way. I couldn't really explain what it was, but I just found the mechanics of how it all worked together so fascinating. Looking back, these were the seeds that inspired my career. But you see where I grew up, going to college and pursuing a career wasn't exactly talked about or heavily encouraged. I'm a first generation Mexican-American and there weren't a lot of people I knew pursuing a career in tech. My friends and family were mostly worrying about graduating high school and making sure they had jobs, not really thinking about longer term careers. My school didn't have the resources to offer many technical classes, and even though my father was working in mechanical engineering, computers were a tool to him like a mill, ruler, or hammer. My parents encouraged me to work hard and pursue computers but they couldn't really give me advice about college or a career in tech. To no real fault of their own, they just didn't have the experience necessary. When I decided to go to college, I decided to try my hand at computer science since it could feed my curiosity for how computers worked at a more fundamental level. I realized that having this foundational knowledge really allowed me to understand some of the higher level concepts that were important in a career in IT. So while in school, I took my first job in IT for a small local company. I've been working in IT for 12 years now, with the last seven years being here at Google. I now work on managing deployments of large internal IT projects for the company, applying the knowledge I've picked up over the years in my initial help-desk role, to make sure that I understand how I'm impacting our users and various support teams. In my role as a corporate operations engineer, I'm responsible for understanding the impact of changes on our corporate infrastructure. Because of this, networking skills are critical. I need to understand not just how applications work on a single system, but how they interact with all other systems in the company and even externally. So now that you know a bit about me, let's dig into the bits and bytes of networking. Computers communicate with each other a lot like how humans do. Take verbal communication as an example. Two people need to speak the same language and be able to hear each other to communicate effectively. If there are loud noises, one person might have to ask the other person to repeat themselves. If one person only somewhat understands an idea being explained to them, that person might ask for clarification. One person might address only one other person or they may be speaking to a group. And there's usually a greeting and a way to close the conversation. The point is that humans follow a series of rules when they communicate. And computers have to do the same. This defined set of standards that computers must follow in order to communicate properly is called a protocol. Computer networking is the name we've given to the full scope of how computers communicate with each other. Networking involves ensuring that computers can hear each other, that they speak protocols other computers can understand, that they repeat messages not fully delivered, and a couple other things, just like how humans communicate. There are lots of models used to describe the different layers at play with computer networking. But for this course, we've selected the TCPIP five-layer model. We'll also be touching on the other primary network model, the OSI Model, which has seven layers. If you don't know what these models are or how they work, don't worry. We'll be deep diving into these topics throughout this course. It's super important to know these types of layered models to learn about computer networking because it's a really layered affair. The protocols at each layer carry the ones above them in order to get data from one place to the next. Think of the protocol used to get data from one end of a networking cable to the other. It's totally different from the protocol you use to get data from one side of the planet to the other. But both of these protocols are required to work at the same time in order for things like the internet and business networks to work the way they do. Sometimes, there are problems when computers on the internet or on these business networks try to communicate with each other and often, it's up to an IT support specialist to fix these problems. This is why understanding computer networking is so important. By the end of this course, you'll be able to explain all five layers of our model. Not only that. You'll be able to describe how computers determine where to send their messages and how network services like DNS and DHCP work. You'll also be able to use powerful tools to help you troubleshoot network issues. Are you ready? Let's dive in.

> THE TCP/IP FIVE-LAYER NETWORK MODEL 
To really understand networking, we need to understand all of the components involved. We're talking about everything from the cables that connect devices to each other to the protocols that these devices use to communicate. There are a bunch of models that help explain how network devices communicate, but in this course, we will focus on a five-layer model. By the end of this lesson, you'll be able to identify and describe each layer and what purpose it serves. Let's start at the bottom of our stack, where we have what's known as the physical layer. The physical layer is a lot like what it sounds. It represents the physical devices that interconnect computers. This includes the specifications for the networking cables and the connectors that join devices together along with specifications describing how signals are sent over these connections. The second layer in our model is known as the data link layer. Some sources will call this layer the network interface or the network access layer. At this layer, we introduce our first protocols. While the physical layer is all about cabling, connectors and sending signals, the data link layer is responsible for defining a common way of interpreting these signals, so network devices can communicate. Lots of protocols exist at the data link layer, but the most common is known as Ethernet, although wireless technologies are becoming more and more popular. Beyond specifying physical layer attributes, the Ethernet standards also define a protocol responsible for getting data to nodes on the same network or link. The third layer, the network layer is also sometimes called the Internet layer. It's this layer that allows different networks to communicate with each other through devices known as routers. A collection of networks connected together through routers is an internetwork, the most famous of these being the Internet. Hopefully you've heard of it. While the data link layer is responsible for getting data across a single link, the network layer is responsible for getting data delivered across a collection of networks. Think of when a device on your home network connects with a server on the Internet. It's the network layer that helps gets the data between these two locations. The most common protocol used at this layer is known as IP or Internet Protocol. IP is the heart of the Internet and most small networks around the world. Network software is usually divided into client and server categories, with the client application initiating a request for data and the server software answering the request across the network. A single node may be running multiple client or server applications. So, you might run an email program and a web browser, both client applications, on your PC at the same time, and your email and web server might both run on the same server. Even so, emails end up in your email application and web pages end up in your web browser. That's because our next layer, the transport layer. While the network layer delivers data between two individual nodes, the transport layer sorts out which client and server programs are supposed to get that data. When you heard about our network layer protocol IP, you may have thought of TCP IP, which is a pretty common phrase. That's because the protocol most commonly used in the fourth layer, the transport layer, is known as TCP or Transmission Control Protocol. While often said together as the phrase TCP IP, to fully understand and troubleshoot networking issues, it's important to know that they're entirely different protocols serving different purposes. Other transfer protocols also use IP to get around, including a protocol known as UDP or User Datagram Protocol. The big difference between the two is that TCP provides mechanisms to ensure that data is reliably delivered while UDP does not. Spoiler alert, we will cover differences between the TCP and UDP transfer protocols in more detail later. For now, it's important to know that the network layer, in our case IP, is responsible for getting data from one node to another. Also, remember that the transport layer, mostly TCP and UDP, is responsible for ensuring that data gets to the right applications running on those nodes. Last but not least, the fifth layer is known as the application layer. There are lots of different protocols at this layer, and as you might have guessed from the name, they are application-specific. Protocols used to allow you to browse the web or send receive email are some common ones. The protocols at play in the application layer will be most familiar to you, since they are ones you probably interacted with directly before even if you didn't realize it. You can think of layers like different aspects of a package being delivered. The physical layer is the delivery truck and the roads. The data link layer is how the delivery trucks get from one intersection to the next over and over. The network layer identifies which roads need to be taken to get from address A to address B. The transport layer ensures that delivery driver knows how to knock on your door to tell you your package has arrived. And the application layer is the contents of the package itself.

> WHY NETWORKING 
Every computing device that we interact with on a day to day basis is a network device, right? Computers aren't standalone anymore in any way, from our phone, to our tablet, to our laptop, to our desktops. They're all networked in some way. They're all talking to other computers. To a lot of people, networking is seen as some kind of black magic. And only certain people really understand what's going on. But in my experience, an IT support person who truly understands networking at a fundamental level, is just able to perform every aspect of their job so much more successfully. There are a lot of networking courses available. This is actually something that people have been teaching in this manner since the 90s. But I think this course is really different because it focuses on so many practical cases, as well as really focusing on the things that an IT support person needs to know and not necessarily a network engineer. We spend a lot of time on DNS. We spend a lot of time on different troubleshooting techniques and tools. We spend a lot of time just focusing on the kind of things that on a day to day basis, someone in IT actually needs to know about. [MUSIC]

